Before we begin, let's outline what you will achieve by the end of this course.
Our primary goal is to equip you with actionable knowledge.
First, you will gain the ability to describe the core principles of electricity.
This isn't just theory; it's the foundation for understanding why safety procedures are so critical.
You'll learn what causes an electrical shock and how to prevent it.
Next, we will focus on your observational skills.
You will learn to confidently identify a wide range of common electrical hazards that might be present in your work
environment.
This includes everything from frayed cords to more subtle dangers like overloaded outlets and incorrect wiring.
Building on that, you will be able to conduct a basic risk assessment.
This means you can look at a task involving electricity, analyze the potential risks, and determine the necessary steps to
mitigate them.
A key part of mitigation is protection.
Therefore, you will learn how to select the right Personal Protective Equipment for the job and, just as importantly, how
to use it correctly.
In the unlikely event that an incident does occur, you'll be prepared.
You will be able to outline the immediate, correct emergency procedures for responding to both electrical shock and electrical fires.
Furthermore, we will demystify key regulations.
You'll understand the purpose and main components of critical safety standards like OSHA's Lockout/Tagout procedure.
Finally, we will tie everything together by focusing on the bigger picture: fostering a robust safety culture and embracing the
concept of continuous improvement to ensure lasting safety.